
So for me that formula is meaningless.  I put no stock on volume or number
of traders or anything like that.  To me the most relevant part is
volatility, which doesn't tell me anything about market direction, but it
does give me the potential magnitude of move the underlying might have.
That puts risk and potential profit into some meaningful perspective.
When volatility goes up, bitcoin is expected to move more and I can win or
lose more, and when volatility goes down, bitcoin moves less and I can win
or lose less.

>> So our swarm of bots will increase trades during times of low volatility

Whoever came up with that formula, though, I guess represents the overall
thinking that bitcoin behaves like a commodity and has an upward drift
(the skew I mentioned; price tends to go up more than it goes down), and
when number of traders increase more people are (perhaps) going to be
buying bitcoin.  It may be true.  Or not, I don't know.

In any case, I'm of the school of thought that markets are random and any
given day a market has ~50% chance to go up or down.  I would rather use
the Implied Volatility of the next 7 days to figure out the 68%
probability range in the underlying than assume that every day is an up
day.  Just to note, if first up day has 50% probability, second has 25%
probability, third 12.5% probability, fourth 6.25% probability, and fifth
day has 3.125% probability.  Or put another way, if underlying went up 4
consecutive days, there's 96.875% probability that the fifth day won't be
an up day.  Streaks of course happen and markets can be irrational and go
up or down a long time (due to greed or fear).

I don't know how to predict potential profit, with the expection when
trading options.  Options have a builtin time decay, meaning options value
go down as time goes by.  So, if I sell an option today for $10, 30 days
from now the same option may trade at $1 and I get to keep the difference.
Due to the builtin decay, it's possible to come up with some profit
estimate for some time period.  I don't know how to do that in just "buy
and hold" trading or scalping (which both I consider to be just a 50-50
shots) as I don't believe it's possible to predict market direction.  I of
course love to scalp :)

--

>> Boten vår bruker IV til å spå prissvingningene for de neste syv dagene

I started thinking about that article, which I didn't read, but it's
probably some guy just coming up with some number, but let me give you my
guess where bitcoin might be year from now, and I'll give you the actual
math behind it.  This is how market makers would do it.

Here's the back-of-the-envelope way of calculating the expected move for
bitcoin with 68% probability (1 standard deviation):

   price * IV% * sqrt(DTE / 365)

Where price is obviously the price of bitcoin, IV is the Implied
Volatility of bitcoin (which I shall guestimate), and DTE is
days-to-expiration, and in this example I'll set that to 365, ie. year
from now.  If you want 30 days from now, use 30 instead.

I used one of the bitcoin options exchanges (www.deribit.com) to calculate
the average out-of-the-money options Implied Volatility and I shall set
that to a value of 250%.  I think that's pretty fair, but it's just a
guess.  We can't know the true IV of bitcoin until we have real market
makers making real markets for bitcoin, but I think that value is
reasonable considering how volatile bitcoin has been lately.

   4100 * (250 / 100) * sqrt(365 / 365) = 10250

So, year from now bitcoin will trade with 68% probability between $0 and
$14350.

Now, that's just a linear value, but in reality bitcoin trades with a
skew, so the real number is probably some lognormal distribution, so the
real 68% range might be for example $500 - $15000.  The IV will probably
also increase as we get to higher prices, so the upper range could be
actually much higher as time goes by.

But, from this we can also say, that's there 16% probability that bitcoin
trades above $15000 year from now, or 16% probability it trades below $500
year from now.

So, that's me making markets for bitcoin year from now.  But we need real
market makers making real markets for bitcoin to truly now what the
expected price range for bitcoin might be.  Also, the IV matters here
greatly.  The IV of bitcoin might actually be a lot higher, in which case
the upper range could be a lot higher, or it might actually be a lot
lower.  We just don't know that yet.

The at-the-money implied volatility at deribit exchange was around 130%,
so for the nest 30 days, the expected range of bitcoin with 68%
probability is between $2572 and $5628.  I think that's reasonable
considering how bitcoin has been moving lately.

In any case, I think there's <1% chance bitcoin trades at $100000 year
from now, unless the IV spikes up greatly (which it could of course).

     Pekka

--


